Critiques and suggestions for future research
 Ameta-analytic data set not only enables the researcher to critique the domain
 in question; it is his/her duty to do so. We therefore conclude our discussion
 with a list of limitations observed in our sample. In order to move the domain
 toward areas that merit attention as well as improved methodological practice,
 each critique is accompanied by suggestions for future research.
 Critique 1: The validity of PI research both in individual studies and in
 the aggregate is threatened by the use of very small samples and corres
pondingly low statistical power. A post hoc power analysis based on the
 results of this study shows observed power within and between groups to
 be just 0.66 and 0.55, respectively. Underpowered studies not only limit our
 ability to detect true effects, they also lead to an uneven depiction of popu
lation effects (via publication bias) when summarized at the secondary level.
 Fortunately, there is a relatively (if also deceptively) simple two-part solu
tion to this problem. First, PI research, like much of SLA, needs larger samples.
 In some cases, owing to practical constraints of recruiting participants, this will
 require less subgroup comparisons. However, more reliable results are cer
tainly preferable to a greater number of less reliable ones. And secondly, PI
 researchers ought to move away from the dichotomous thinking embodied by
 null hypothesis significance testing, focusing instead on point estimates and
 their practical significance as expressed by effect sizes (Norris and Ortega 2006;
 Plonsky 2013). Considering only 17 studies (20 per cent of the sample) re
ported effect sizes, and almost none provided a useful interpretation of those
 effects, change in this direction may be slow.
 it only underpowered, it lacks diver
sity, particularly in terms of different ages, first languages, and target
 languages. Whereas the previous critique poses a threat to internal validity,
 this problem puts into question the external validity or generalizability of PI
 research. Only 4 of 86 primary reports in our sample involved participants less
 than 13 years old. Considering many pronunciation errors are L1 and L2 spe
cific (e.g. Derwing and Munro 2013), it is perhaps even more concerning that
 English was either the participants’ first language or the target language in 83
 of the 86 studies.
 The way forward here for PI researchers is to consider recruiting younger
 participants as well as learners other than those whose L1 or L2 is English.
 Doing so may require reaching out to and making connections with teachers
 and researchers outside of our home institutions.
 Critique 3: Three features of PI designs are in need of improvement. First,
 only 14 per cent of the sample examined the longevity of effects by means of a
 delayed posttest. Interestingly, studies in this sample that included delayed
 posttests in their design produced larger effects, a pattern also observed in
 Plonsky (2011, 2013) and Plonsky and Gass (2011). In order to determine
 the practical significance of PI in ‘real-world’ settings, where learning matters
 beyond a brief intervention, delayed posttests must be incorporated into future
 studies. This practice would also contribute to theoretical discussions related to
 the durability of instructional treatments. Secondly, pre–post designs far out
number controlled experiments. This trend is likely due in part to the use of
 intact samples where it may be inappropriate or even unethical to withhold
 treatment for the sake of experimental control. Although pre–post designs can
 help guide L2 practitioners’ expectations, absolute effects can only be mea
sured through more rigorously controlled designs. Third, PI research relies too
 heavily—primarily even—on controlled outcome measures, thus again limit
ing the external validity of study results. There is clearly a need for greater
 variety of outcome measures in PI research.
 Critique 4: Two substantive issues observed in this body of research are also
 worth noting. First is a lack of attention to a number of phonetic and phono
logical features such as articulation, elision, linking, and stress. And secondly,
 the interactions between different treatments and learner backgrounds (i.e.
 aptitude-treatment interaction research, or ATI) present a potential source of
 findings in PI with relevance for L2 theory and practice. To date, however, a
 very small number of studies have examined such interactions (e.g. Elliot
 1997) unlike the rapidly growing body of ATI research in the realm of gram
mar instruction (e.g. Li 2013).